PROCEDURES:
1. Left heart catheterization, coronary angiography, left ventriculography.
2. Drug eluting stent, proximal LAD.

INDICATIONS: Acute anterior ST-elevation MI.

ACCESS: Right femoral artery 6-French.

MEDICATIONS:
1. IV Valium.
2. IV Benadryl.
3. Subcutaneous lidocaine.
4. IV heparin.
5. IV ReoPro.
6. Intracoronary nitroglycerin.

ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 10 mL.

CONTRAST: 185 mL.

COMPLICATIONS: None.

PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization laboratory with acute ST-elevation MI and EKG. She was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. The right femoral region was infiltrated with subcutaneous lidocaine, adequate anesthesia was obtained. The right femoral artery was entered with a modified Seldinger technique and a J wire was passed. The needle was exchanged for 6 French sheath. The wire was removed. The sheath was washed with sterile saline. Following this, the left coronary was attempted to be cannulated with an XP catheter, however, the catheter folded on itself and could not reach the left main, this was removed. A second 6-French JL4 guiding catheter was then used to cannulate the left main and initial guiding shots demonstrated occlusion of the proximal LAD. The patient had an ACT check, received additional IV heparin and IV ReoPro. The lesion was crossed with a long BMW 0.014 guidewire. Then, we ballooned the lesion with a 2.5 x 9 mm Maverick balloon. Subsequently, we stented the lesion with a 2.5 x 16 mm Taxus drug-eluting stent with a nice angiographic result. The patient tolerated the procedure very well, without complications.  The case was then progressed to percutaneous intervention of the right PDA. A 6-French JR4 guide catheter with side holes was selected and used to engage the right coronary artery ostium. Additional angiography was performed with a wire out. Following this, the wire and the catheter was removed. Following this, the right coronary was selectively cannulated with diagnostic catheter and angiographic views were obtained in multiple views. This catheter was removed. The pigtail catheter was placed in the left ventricle and left ventriculography was performed with pullback pressures across the aortic valve. At the end of procedure, wires and catheter were removed. Right femoral angiography was performed and a right femoral Angio-Seal kit was deployed at the right femoral arteriotomy site. There was no hematoma. Peripheral pulses 2+ at the end of the procedure. The patient tolerated the procedure well. Symptoms of jaw pain resolved at the end of the procedure with no complications.

RESULTS:
1. Coronary angiography.
A. Left main free of obstruction.
B. LAD, 100% proximal stenosis.
C. Circumflex large vessel with three large obtuse marginal branches. No high-grade obstruction, evidence of minimal plaquing.
D. Right coronary mild mid vessel stenosis and mild mid to distal stenosis before giving rise to a right dominant posterior lateral and posterior descending artery.
2. Left ventriculogram. Left ventricular ejection fraction estimated at 40%. There was an akinetic anterior wall.
3. Hemodynamics. Aortic pressure 145/109, left ventricular pressure 147/13, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 34 mmHg.

IMPRESSION:
1. Acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction, culprit lesion, left anterior descending occlusion.
2. Two-vessel coronary disease.
3. Mild-to-moderate impaired LV systolic function.
4. Successful stent left anterior descending, 100% occlusion, 0% residual stenosis.

PLAN: Overnight observation in ICU. Start aspirin and Plavix. Check serial cardiac enzymes. Further recommendations to follow. Check fasting lipid panel. Further recommendations to follow. 


